---
title: 'Compare Texmaker and LaTex Workshop(An add-on of Visual Code)'
date: 2017-12-13
permalink: /posts/2018/12/blog-post-1/
tags:
---

<style>
table {
    border-collapse: collapse;
}

table, th, td {
    border: 1px solid black;
}
</style>

Based on My own requirements, I compared TexMaker and LaTex Workshop. This comparison consists of two levels: supportiveness and ease of use. 


Motivation
------
I have been used TexMaker for Latex file editing and Visual Code for editing my personal website for about a year when I am writing this blog. However, I never think about writing Latex with Visual Code until someone told me that might be a better option. There are some other options as Latex editor. But I would like to start with this comparison and might extend it later. 

Metrics
------
The comparison is in the dimensions of my requirements. So the comparison has limitation and might not be a suitable reference for your case. The Metrics used for this comparison has two levels. The first level is comparing if these two tools have the features to support my requirement while the second level includes two directions: 1) How easy of the configuration about the features? 2) How easy to use of the features? 

For the second level comparison, configuration or usage details are provided for some feature for two reason: 1) As a reference for those complicated situation 2) Giving a more concrete proof of the comparison result.

The comparison was applied to both Windows and Mac OX S.

Result
------
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th colspan=2>Requirement</th>
            <th>Layer 2</th>
            <th>Layer 3</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=4>L1 Name</td>
            <td rowspan=2>L2 Name A</td>
            <td>L3 Name A</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>L3 Name B</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>L2 Name B</td>
            <td>L3 Name C</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>L3 Name D</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

Conclusion
------
